[Music]
hey do you ever get lost in thought with
what if questions I mean you know what
if I change my job what if I won the
lottery but if we start asking more
global perhaps less realistic questions
for example what would happen if I
drilled a hole through the earth and
jumped in why
first of all heck of a shortcut instead
of sitting cramped on a plane traveling
over twelve thousand four hundred fifty
miles you'd have to cover just seven
thousand nine hundred miles Bora Bora
here I come you'd also really cut down
your travel time it would only take you
forty two minutes to end up on the other
side of the planet but if you're in the
u.s. you better be careful and grab an
inflatable raft before you jump through
that earth piercing hole in a little
under a half hour you'd wind up smack
dab in the middle of the Indian Ocean
and if you happen to be hanging out in
Chile when this bright idea comes to
mind hooray
you could be chowing down on some
authentic Chinese cuisine for lunch but
nobody said your ride would be easy
don't be expecting a waterpark slide
kind of experience although the thought
of that kind of makes me giggle how
about you but alas you'll need to get
ready for an obstacle course first off
depending on where you start drilling
expect anywhere from 20 to 40 miles of
continental crust kind of like the
inside of a first-graders nose when he
has a call after that you'll have to get
through almost 2,000 miles of the solid
rock of Earth's mantle then you'll be
seeing the outer core of liquid iron
burning at around 10,000 degrees
Fahrenheit fYI that's as hot as the
surface of the Sun not to mention this
outer core is the size of Mars
okay so you've gotten through the outer
core
I've made it so far now you're looking
at the solid moon sized inner core but
you're not done yet because some experts
believe that there's an innermost core
that's entirely liquid and that's it
that's all the layers oh but wait what
now you may have reached the center of
the earth but you still have to go
through all those layers again on your
way out piece of cake and if you were
wondering how on earth or in earth I
should say you'd be able to cover such a
huge distance in just 42 minutes the
answer to that is gravity as you're
sitting right now watching this awesome
video yes it is us Abed gravity is
pulling you toward the Earth at a force
of about 32 feet per second squared and
that's a good thing that's why you don't
go floating up into the atmosphere but
as you're falling through your imaginary
cross earth hole you would speed up by
32 feet for every second of your fall
and this is only if you're not far from
the surface after you're about halfway
to the planet's core
you'd be going at a speed of 15,000
miles per hour and 21 minutes after you
jumped inside you'd past the center of
the earth at 18,000 miles per hour so
basically to go through the entire
planet in under an hour you need to be
going really really fast when you reach
the other side of the planet you'd have
to make sure there was someone there to
catch you otherwise you'd be pulled back
into the tunnel you came from so lucky
you if you're jumping through from chile
instead of enjoying your Beijing duck
for lunch you just be munching on some
chili and serve each a UH a win-win as
for those jumping through from the
states the odds of someone floating in
the Indian Ocean to catch you are slim
to none sorry hey no problem man we're
cool now what would happen if the earth
wasn't tilted you might not know this or
maybe you just forgot since it's just
been way too many years into your school
days
but our earth sits on its axis at a 23
point five degree angle and it's a good
thing too this is why we have all our
seasons but what if there wasn't a tilt
well the earth would definitely be a
completely different place to live first
of all the Arctic and Antarctic regions
would become more pleasant places to
live in the Sun would make an appearance
every day and these regions wouldn't be
so cold you wouldn't be able to go
sunbathing in the summer or anything as
these areas would still be the coldest
on the planet but at least you'd be able
to sleep at night without a sleeping
mask there wouldn't be midday Sun like
there is today secondly summer and
winter would be a thing of the past
that's why all the traditions and
activities connected with these seasons
would disappear snow could still be
found closer to the North and South
Poles but most places on the planet
would never see it again oh but wait no
more snowmen snow fights or snow days
bummer
plants would have an absolutely
different growth pattern you know since
the seasons would cease to exist the
poor plants would get completely
confused this would surely influence
animals especially herbivores what's
more some of them wouldn't feel the need
to hibernate in the winter because there
would be no winter Bears would be
roaming everywhere holy crap
just kidding or maybe their mating
seasons would change as well
so would we have more animals hmm all
right what would happen if the earth was
flat sorry - the Flat Earth Society but
your theory just doesn't hold up if this
were the case we would have some serious
problems with gravity it would work as
it should pulling straight down but only
in the center of the disk if you were
moving away from the centre it would
begin to tug more horizontally and this
would be totally insane insane imagine
it all the water would gather in the
center of the world and the edges would
become dry deserts as for plants and
trees they would grow
agonal the further from the center they
are the sharper the angle would be it
would become absolutely impossible to
play any sport with a ball what's the
point if no matter how well you threw
the ball it would boomerang and come
back to the center of the disc planet so
the next time a coconut falls on the
ground near your feet be grateful that
the earth is spherical otherwise that
coconut would probably hit you right in
the face
ouch all right now what would happen if
the earth started spinning faster let's
start with some facts about the present
time the earth is spinning really fast
and it spins faster at the equator
for example the Equator is moving at a
speed of around 1,000 37 miles per hour
well Chicago it's taking its dear old
time at 750 miles an hour we can't feel
any of this of course because we're
spinning with the planet kind of like
when you're in the car and you don't
feel yourself moving at 65 miles an hour
same concept just a way bigger scale
cool let's imagine that the earth starts
to rotate just one mile per hour faster
seems harmless enough right not entirely
the sea level would rise by just a few
inches around the equator because if the
planet spins faster around its waistline
some water will migrate there from the
pools however it would take you a couple
of years to notice it all right I think
we can live with that what you notice
immediately would be some of the
satellites going off track they circle
the planet at the speed of the Earth's
rotation so if the planet increased its
pace the satellites would lose their
positions it would lead to at least
temporary disruption in TV broadcasting
mobile communication and even military
operations whoa
getting a little more serious now
however things could be much more dire
than just these minor discomforts the
faster the planet spun the more
catastrophic the situation would become
for example you'd lose weight hey I
thought you said catastrophic what could
be better than instant weight loss
without torturous diets and exercise
hold on there not so fast even nowadays
if you travel to the equator instead of
your usual 150 pounds your weight drops
to 149 pounds why is that as the equator
spins faster it generates some extra
centrifugal force and this force fights
gravity but just a little bit though
enough to boost your self-confidence
after you step on the scales and the
faster the planet spins the lighter you
are if the earth started spinning at
17,000 641 miles per hour you'd become
weightless and get flung right off the
planet oh if you think that's bad there
would be tons of other catastrophic
consequences first of all the equator
would drown also hurricanes would gain
unbelievable force along with that
severe earthquakes would shake the
planet okay definitely doesn't sound
like a place I want to live and what
would happen if the earth was a cube now
a cubic earth would be a very different
planet from the one we live on today
first off at the center of each face
gravity would be at its strongest that's
where all the water would collect kind
of like a Flat Earth theory remember as
for the edges of the planet they would
look like barren lifeless rocks there
wouldn't be any atmosphere there as it
would be drawn toward the Centers of the
faces so to sum it up we live on a
planet with a thick atmosphere and giant
oceans in the center of the faces each
with its own ecosystem all right what if
the earth had rings yes
I've always been so jealous of Saturn
and it's pretty rings so what if our
planet had them too well they would look
different depending on where you were
these rings would most likely go
parallel with the equator so near the
equator you'd see them as thin columns
of light disappearing somewhere far in
the sky if you moved away from the
equator the Rings would look wider and
brighter they would also reflect
sunlight at night it would seem as if
they were glowing in the sky
sounds like an added bonus for the
romantics out there as a result there
would never be complete darkness on
earth
but during daytime the level of light
would skyrocket what would happen if the
earth didn't have the moon first of all
how would Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin
have made their legacy huh
besides that having no moon would
noticeably change our world the tides
would still exist but they would be much
weaker you wouldn't have a chance to go
for a romantic walk in the moonlight
sorry romantics you got your glowing
rings on the previous one but you're
losing out on this one the Knights would
become much darker but what's the most
important is that the Earth's day would
be shorter it would happen because
without the moon our planet would spend
faster so instead of complaining about
never having enough time in the day
you'd be wishing to have at least 24
hours what would happen if the earth was
two times bigger if our planet was twice
its current size its gravitational force
would be two times stronger so trees
would be thick and tall and plants stiff
and tough animals would also be
noticeably bigger more massive and with
thick legs to support their increased
weight due to the gravity can you
imagine your cat all bulked up with
Arnold Schwarzenegger legs as for humans
it would depend on the evolutionary
demands they would either become bulky
too or on the contrary skinny and light
fingers crossed for the latter
alternative
so what other what-ifs have you ever
considered tell us in the comments share
this video with your friends and
remember to give us a thumbs up
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]